GRANBO'
Gun-toting granny shoots 2 rapists' testicles off
MELBOURNE, Australia -- Gun-toting granny Ava Estelle, 81, was so ticked-off
when two thugs raped her 18-year-old granddaughter that she tracked the
unsuspecting ex-cons down - - and shot their testicles off!

"The old lady spent a week hunting those bums down -- and when she found
them, she took revenge on them in her own special way," said admiring
Melbourne police investigator Evan Delp.

"Then she took a taxi to the nearest police station, laid the gun on the
sergeant's desk and told him as calm as could be: 'Those bastards will never
rape anybody again, by God.'
81-year-old Ava Estelle shows how she turned two rapists into sopranos.

Cops say convicted rapist and robber Davis Furth, 33, lost both his penis
and his testicles when outraged Ava opened fire with a 9-mm pistol in the
seedy hotel room where he and former prison cellmate Stanley Thomas, 29,
were holed up.

The wrinkled avenger also blew Thomas' testicles to kingdom come, but
doctors managed to save his mangled penis, policy said.

"The one guy, Thomas, didn't lose his manhood, but the doctor I talked to
said he won't be using it the way he used to," Detective Delp told
reporters. "Both men are still in pretty bad shape, but I think they're just
happy to be alive after what they've been through."

The Rambo Granny swung into action August 21 after her granddaughter Debbie
was carjacked and raped by two knife-wielding creeps in a section of town
bordering on skid row.

"When I saw the look on my Debbie's face that night in the hospital, I
decided I was going to go out and get those bastards myself 'cause I figured
the police would go easy on them," recalled the retired library worker. "And
I wasn't scared of them, either -- because I've got me a gun and I've been
shootin' it all my life."

So, using a police artist's sketch of the suspects and Debbie's description
of the sickos' car, tough-as-nails Ava spent seven days prowling the
wino-infested neighborhood where the crime took place till she spotted the
ill-fated rapists entering their flophouse hotel.

"I know it was them the minute I saw 'em, but I shot a picture of 'em anyway
and took it back to Debbie and she said sure as hell, it was them," the
ornery oldster recalled.

"So I went back to that hotel and found their room and knocked on the
door -- and the minute the big one, Furth, opened the door, I shot 'em got
right square between the legs, right where it would really hurt 'em most,
you know. Then I went down to the police station and turned myself in."

Now, baffled lawmen are tying to figure out how to deal with the vigilante
granny. "What she did was wrong, but you can't really throw an 81-year-old
woman in prison." Det. Delp said, "especially when all 3 million people in
the city want to nominate her for sainthood."
