How lucky can you get! Incredible story of how man survives being hit by lightning TWICE in remarkable CCTV footage

The chances of being struck by lightning once are high enough.

But one unfortunate man appears to have been electrocuted twice within the space of a minute by two almighty bolts of lightning.

The hapless pedestrian had been jogging along a quiet city street when CCTV captured the astonishing moment on April 11.

Shortly before the apparent freak accident a walker carrying an umbrella and a jogger had passed through the street unscathed.

They are followed later by a young couple walking arm-in-arm as they shelter from what could be light drizzle.

But the unlucky man then jogs in from the bottom of the screen wearing dark trousers and a heavy coat.

Seconds later a frightening bolt of electricity rips down from the heavens and zaps the man in his tracks.

He stumbles for a few feet before collapsing painfully face down onto the hard ground.

Around his motionless body a dark shadow forms, which could be blood or scorched tarmac.

After some 15 seconds the man begins to move his legs before struggling up from the ground. He clutches his head and sits for a moment to catch his breath.

The stunned jogger lifts himself up and goes on his way, resuming a brisk jog.

But seconds later after around ten yards a second bolt of powerful lightning strikes the man, knocking him to the ground again. Another dark shadow forms on the ground.

Thankfully, the man pulls himself to his feet and struggles away, even if he is a little confused by what just happened.

The astonishing video has become an internet sensation with thousands of people expressing their surprise that the unlucky man survived.

The chances of being struck by lighting once in a give year are around one in 700,000. The chance of being struck twice within such a short space of time are virtually unmeasurable.

It is not known where the video was recorded, although there is Chinese writing in the top corner of the screen.

Cynics suggested that so high was the probability of such a freak accident that the video might have been faked. 

Some internet users pointed to the lack of visible rain in the CCTV footage while one suggested that lightening hitting the ground would have caused the camera to shake.

Another stated that in the video the lightning lasted for only one frame, whereas, they said, real lightning would have 'overexposed the camera for at least a few frames on each strike'.

But other viewers said the video was genuine.

One wrote: 'Security cameras don't just shake every time it's windy don't they? Pause the video when the dude gets hit and look at the light, that's pretty hard to fake, don't you think?'

Another added: 'Photoshop can't make a thunder like that. Real.'

And one person wrote: 'I think this is the lesson for all of us - if you are hit by lightning don't get up because you will feel a second wave.'

Only around ten per cent of people who are struck by lightning die, usually because the bolt of electricity causes their heart and breathing to stop.

Those who survive tend to wake up from the shock within a few seconds but have little recollection of what happened before the injury. They could suffer minor burns and stroke-like symptoms. A doctor may later point to lightning strikes as the cause of injury.
