Mom Calls 911 On Masturbating Teenage Son; Boy Arrested, Charged With New ‘Self-Rape’ Alabama State Law
An Alabama teenager is being charged and held without bail, facing 3-15 years in prison over a new ‘Self-Rape’ state law implemented by AL Gov. Robert J. Bentley last month.

Montgomery, AL — An Alabama boy is behind bars tonight after his mother called 9-1-1 when she found her son in his room, watching pornography and masturbating. Montgomery Police were quick to respond, arresting 15-year-old Paul Horner, who attends Jefferson Davis High School. The teenager is being held without bail and charged by prosecutors under a new controversial Alabama state law called ‘Self-Rape’, which carries a minimum of 3 years in prison with a maximum of 15 years behind bars depending on that individuals past criminal history.

This is the first time this new state law has been used since it was put into action last month by Alabama Governor Robert J. Bentley. Bently spoke with local news station WSFA 12 News about the charges against the boy.

“I applaud the Alabama District court systems here in Montgomery,” Bentley said. “This is exactly why I implemented the state law of ‘Self-Rape’ last month and this is exactly what it is meant to be used for. I plan to do whatever I can to ensure that tragedies like this don’t happen again. We need to educate our children about the dangers and consequences of masturbation before it’s too late.”

Horner, after hearing his charges by the Honorable Judge Stevens of the Alabama Southern District Court, broke down in tears and had to be restrained by bailiffs.

Transcripts of the 9-1-1 call were released to the public:

“911, what’s your emergency?”
“Help! My son is watching porn and masturbating! That is not allowed in this house and I don’t know what kind of demons possessed him to violate his body in such a matter. I’m so shaken up! Please send help immediately!”

33-year-old Martha Horner, mother to the young boy, who is a self-proclaimed fanatical Baptist follower, told CNN she is still in shock.

“Up until now, my young, precious boy had no run-ins with the law, no drugs or alcohol, was a straight-A student, was in numerous extra curricular activities and played starting center on the boys Varsity basketball team,” Horner’s mother said. “But somewhere along the way he started playing on the Devil’s playground. Hopefully because of my quick thinking and actions my son will soon be able to get the help he so badly needs. I pray for it; please Jesus, save our family!”

Ms. Horner’s controversial actions have been applauded by some, for example, Lonnie Childs, president and founder of the federally funded Christian anti-masturbation organization STOP Masturbation NOW.

“STOP Masturbation NOW ministries have nominated Martha Horner for our coveted Mother of the Year award,” Childs told reporters. “She really stepped up, provided moral discipline and leadership under such difficult conditions. My prayer app has been activated and I send this brave, courageous woman nothing but the best during these difficult times. I encourage you all all to do the same.”

A mascot for the Christian organization, Fappy The Anti-Masturbation Dolphin, told reporters he is pleased with the justice served today and is confident this will set a precedent for all the would be masturbators out there.

“Fappy® has helped tens of thousands of adults and children around the world learn to live a masturbation-free lifestyle. During our visits to schools around the world, our organization has collected thousands of signatures from children promising to never masturbate; we have done great things. Our organization is passionate about the great work that we do. The children even have a nickname for Fappy®, they call him the tickle monster. Working side by side with such great a great man as Governor Bentley, we’re ridding the demons from these heathen’s pants, one pair of pants at a time. Fappy® vows to stay on this case until justice is served!”

Officer Tom Downey with the Montgomery Police Department, who took the child into custody, spoke with Montgomery Fox News station WVOC about the arrest.

“We thought at first he was possibly intoxicated or mentally unstable, ya know, talking about how we should leave him alone and just let him watch his ‘girl on girl action’, as he said it, makes me sick! It’s a slippery slope my friend, one day it’s masturbating to porn, the next day it’s raping some innocent school girl. Thank God we got this heathen off the streets before another tragedy could have occurred.” Downey continued, “There is no better feeling than putting the real bad guys behind bars. Nothing better than that I tell ya. I know I can sleep better at night just knowing another criminal is off the streets.”

Detectives confiscated pornography and lube found in the teenager’s room as evidence.

Prosecutors told local reporters that based on the severity of the crime, the new Alabama state law of Self-Rape A.R.S. §§ 34-171 & 52-69 would carry a minimum of 3 years with a maximum of 15 years depending on that criminals past history.

Horner is currently being held at the Montgomery County Jail. He presently has no bond set and the judge has restricted him from seeing visitors. Horner’s next scheduled court appearance is May 3rd.

Fappy The Anti-Masturbation Dolphin and Stop Masturbation Now are federally funded programs designed to teach both children and adults about the dangers and consequences of masturbation. For more information or if you would like the organization to visit your child’s school call (785) 273-0325.

